efficient way of creating virtual machines

1. login to aws ec2 instance
   click on your instance from running ec2 instance console
   click on connect
   again we will find connect option, click on that
   after that virtual machine will open, where we can perform our work

connecting to ec2 isntance from terminal on our local system
 on windows
  1. we acn use putty or mobaxterm or nomachine
  2. always use public ip address to conenct to ec2 isnatnce from netwprk outdie the aws network
  3. from the terminal execute the command ssh username@eceIpAddress
  4. above command will fail as we are not providing key-value pair file to athenticate
  5. so, we should use ssh -i "key-value pair file location"  username@ece2InstanecIpAddress
  6. it will again fail because, pem file which is key-avleu pair in our case is a secret file that is it has sensitive information, so we have to
      keep the permissions closed
      so we have to execut eteh command chmod 600 "key-value pair file location" -> to change the peem file permissions
  7. now again execute the same ssh command ssh -i "key-value pair file location"  username@ece2InstanecIpAddress
  8. if the instance is not required stop the instance and then terminate it

AWS CLI
1. is a cli, can be used to directly interact with aws api and aws account, to create any resource
2. to use it,we need to download aws cli
3. to check if aws cli is installed, check using aws --version
4. to authentiacte ourselves with aws cli, to do this
   a. go to security credentials under your aws profile
   b. on that page will fon sometging called create access keys, create it
   c. take a access key and secret access key created 
5. go to aws cli, execute the command aws configure
   then it will ask for access key and secret access key and give a region it is optional
6. Now, our aws account is suuccessfully configured with aws cli

now, we can execute commands like for example
 a. aws s3 ls
 b. aws s3 mb "bucketanme"

there is a documnetation avaialble to create aws instance from aws cli
 aws cli ec2 instance create -> ex search for dcument

AWS CloudFormation Template - another way of talking with aws api
1.go to awslabs/aws-cloudformation-templtes git hub repositoru than to cloudformstiontamplate under that we have wide range of examples got to 
  services under aws
  from there you can take script for any of the service that you want to create
  ex: take the ece2 instance creation script
2. from aws ui, click on cft -> from that screen click on create tack button
3. provide details for on create stack screen, 
4. cloud fromation falls under infrastructure as code, will look into thee concepts later

Script Automation using AWS API
1. we can use boto3 module of python for script automation
2. 
